okay, better, but here's the setup - they walk and they talk. now they walk to tower then they talk. there's no point in it. we're on the go - everything is setup as they walk to the tower. at the tower it's sent off. think mom sending a kid to school - you talk it over on the way to the bas stop not at it when bus arrives.
so setup and dialogue needs to establish
Mila is a protagonist. she's being send off. she wants to stay. Jara is adamant. the mission is the stormfire gem. that's foxes turf - he wants in. Jara denies, because it's not about him or the gem, it's about Mila's growing up.
they arrive at the tower, Mila's final I don't want to. Fox - I'll go instead. the gem, finders keepers. he's not helping Mila, he's after the gem.
so F01-F05 needs to be restaged.
F06 breaks the rhythm - Mila's like wait, what? turns to Jara and Jara puts her hand on Mila's back gently. Have fun, be carefull and shoves her into the portal. that's it. Jara's walking around breaks the abrupt momentum of it. think about it - the entire chapter is us taking a reader, giving him fragmented info and shoving him/her into the book next to Mila. it's intentional. they are in it together now. they'll have to figure it out as they go.
F07 is againt processing instead of shock.
F08 is redundant
F09 breaks focus rules. we just got through the portal, the focus is here, with characters, you okay? where are we? and where's fox? this is literally the questions the reader asks and it turns out, nobody knows the answer yet. the guard shows without the anticipation and Mila is scrambling to absorb it is how it should be not a bug to be fixed.
protagonist and reader live in the same space - on the page. it means what they see, feel and the questions they ask must be the same.
consider running the sim - here you are, 11yo, pushed through the portal and flattened by your own cat as you were getting up, where's you focus? on a footsteps outside the door?
or you're a reader taking it all in - what questions are you asking right now?
for it to flow in needs to be natural. for the reader to get behind Mila he needs to see her as just another kid and for that she needs to behave like one. asme goes for Jara (parent figure), cat, older brother, fox - the trickster. those are all real people from the hood. you know them, you see them in the characters - this guy from school, mom sending you to a summer camp as she ignores your whine, the older brother and so on. it's not fantasy. it's reality wrapped in fairytale for the entertainment purposes. the core is as real as it gets.